#Streamlining Technology in the Modern Era
##By Daniel Nozick

>In a world that is becoming more and more reliant on technology, programming abilities are highly desirable in the professional world. Students are now learning basic coding abilities as early as elementary school in order to remain relevant by the time they are looking for employment. As a result, the online marketplace has a wide array of applications which can be used for almost any purpose by those with basic coding abilities. Today, nearly all aspects of industry are being digitized – communications, advertisement, marketing. As a result, one of the most capable work forces is found among web designers. It is imperative that any organization in this day and age should have a website that is appealing, concise, and navigable. As a result, talented and experienced web designers are highly sought after. Web designers are effective because they can maintain a small skillset which they can use to countless ends. These individuals use a small set of programs supplemented with their own coding abilities to create effective websites.
>
>Two of the most useful products in the toolkit of a website designer are Balsamiq and Bootstrap. Each of these programs are fantastic and easy to use for their respective purposes, particularly for beginner programmers and designers. Balsamiq fulfills the desires of the designer niche. Using simple drag and drop functionality, it allows the user to create expansive mockups which can be shared easily. The Balsamiq website advertises the product as “the perfect ‘in-between tool’ for Product Managers, Developers and Designers… for smooth collaboration from the ground up.” Additionally, Balsamiq provides tools to export mockups to HTML or code through third-party extensions. This application is perfect for collaborating with a team on the first steps of a project. It enables the user to accurately design a website in line with rigid specifications and outline exactly how each page of the website will look, minus the functionality. [Ray Wenderlich](https://www.raywenderlich.com/64672/app-mockup-tools-reviews-part-2), a blog dedicated to developing high quality programming tutorials, published a series in which Riccardo D'Antoni, an iOS developer, reviews mockup tools. At the conclusion of his series, he offers the opinion that “Balsamiq Mockups [is] the easiest and quickest tool to use. It’s simple, clean and straight to the point. The fact that it is cross-platform and offers a web application makes the tool even more appealing. It took me only ten minutes [to create a detailed mockup] compared that to an average of about 25 minutes with the other tools.” Balsamiq is an invaluable tool to any web designer.
>
>While Balsamiq is for mockups, Bootstrap is multi-faceted front-end framework “for faster and easier web development” – it provides the functionality that Balsamiq lacks. Bootstrap streamlines coding for the user by providing design templates for typography, fonts, buttons, tables, navigation, image carousels, et cetera.  These design templates are based in HTML and CSS, but Bootstrap is also compatible with JavaScript plug-ins. One of the main benefits of Bootstrap is that these templates are reusable components. Developing websites can be tedious and repetitive when it comes to coding. By creating shortcuts which code for physical elements of the webpage such as color and style, Bootstrap is a program which is actively making it easier for programmers with less technical know-how to create more extensive, elaborate websites. This is easy to see - Bootstrap is being introduced to students all over the world, and has been used successfully both as an in-school and after-school program nation-wide for nearly a decade. [Brown University](https://news.brown.edu/articles/2014/04/bootstrap) reported that “algebra isn’t the only thing students learn through Bootstrap. They also become familiar with ins and outs of coding, a crucial skill in an increasingly digital world.”
>
>Programs like Bootstrap are integral to the evolving computer-oriented industry. Now that programs exist to streamline and digitize content from former eras of industry, interest is turning to optimizing new technology. Innovators are looking for ways to make advanced technology more readily and easily usable to audiences. The near future looks to see programs even more closely interlocked with each other. In the future, we will be able to complete much more intricate tasks with fewer and simpler commands, just as Bootstrap has done with its reusable HTML and CSS components. The aim will be to create applications which combine the ease of Balsamiq’s drag and drop method with the functionality of Bootstrap. Ultimately, the combination of such forces will result in programs which will allow users with little to no coding experience to create functioning websites by using pre-coded elements. Vitaly Friedman, the editor-in-chief of Smashing Magazine, had similar sentiments when he wrote, “The last fifteen years of web design were nothing if not outstanding in innovation and experimentation. And it’s not about to stop.” The quicker our workforce can be optimized for efficiency, the sooner businesses can step completely into the digital age.
